[KB-288] Experiment design for initial experiment (#200)
chhoumann/thesis-chemcam: report_thesis/src/sections/experiment_design/initial_experiment.tex

\subsection{Design for Initial Experiment}\label{sec:initial-experiment}

> The goal of the initial experiment is to identify the most promising models for further evaluation.

Reviewer: Past tense.

```suggestion
The goal of the initial experiment was to identify the most promising models for further evaluation.
```

Reviewer 2: Should addressed now that the intro was changed completely.

This experiment was designed to give an initial indication of the performance of the models on the \gls{ccs} dataset.

> To conduct the initial experiment and evaluate the twelve selected models shown in Table~\ref{tab:preprocessing-models} we wanted to ensure that the models were evaluated on a consistent basis.

Reviewer: Past tense.
```suggestion
To conduct the initial experiment and evaluate the twelve selected models shown in Table~\ref{tab:preprocessing-models}, we ensured that the models were evaluated on a consistent basis.
```

We achieve this by setting the following conditions for the experiment.
The only preprocessor used for all models was \texttt{Norm 3} normalization.

> This normalization technique was developed specifically by \citet{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017} for accomodating the characteristics of the \gls{libs} data, whereby the data represents the readings of three different spectrometers, as outlined in Section~\ref{sec:norm3}.
> Therefore, \texttt{Norm 3} represents the most \gls{libs}-specific normalization technique available in from the pool of selected preprocessors and is the most appropriate choice for this experiment.

Reviewer: Past tense + it isn't a characteristic of LIBS data, but the collection process. 
They have 5 spectrometers on SuperCam, and use Norm 5 there. It's a general approach.

```suggestion
This normalization technique was developed by \citet{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017} to accommodate the characteristics of how the \gls{libs} data is collected, whereby the data represented the readings of three different spectrometers, as outlined in Section~\ref{sec:norm3}.
Therefore, \texttt{Norm 3} represented the most \gls{libs}-specific normalization technique available from the pool of selected preprocessors and was the most appropriate choice for this experiment.
```

Reviewer: > Therefore, \texttt{Norm 3} represented the most \gls{libs}-specific normalization technique available from the pool of selected preprocessors and was the most appropriate choice for this experiment.

I'm not sure how I feel about this argument. Not great, but I don't really have anything much better. Can we discuss?

Reviewer 2: Same here, the intro was changed.

All models were trained using our data partitioning and cross-validation strategy, as described in Section~\ref{subsec:validation_testing_procedures}. 

> To ensure as fair of a comparison between models as possible, all models were trained using as many default hyperparameters as possible and those hyperparameters that did not have default options were selected based on values found in the literature.

Reviewer: > as many default hyperparameters as possible and those hyperparameters that did not have default options were selected based on values found in the literature.

Can we discuss this?

> To ensure as fair of a comparison between models as possible, all models were trained using as many default hyperparameters as possible and those hyperparameters that did not have default options were selected based on values found in the literature.
> However, due to the nature of the neural network models architecture, some extra time was spent on tuning the models to ensure a fair comparison.

Reviewer: Grammar.

```suggestion
To ensure as fair of a comparison between models as possible, all models were trained using as many default hyperparameters as possible, and those hyperparameters that did not have default options were selected based on values found in the literature.
However, due to the nature of the neural network models' architecture, some extra time was spent on tuning the models to ensure a fair comparison.
```

> Finally, all the models ran only one trial per oxide. 

Reviewer: Don't like calling it trials here. That's a term we use for the optimization & it doesn't make sense in this context IMO.

We evaluated each model once per oxide given the selected configuration of hyperparameters.

> Although running multiple trials would allow for an average performance evaluation, we argue that the variability of the results in each trial would be small enough that an average performance would not change the ranking of the models. 
> Additionally, as stated, the goal of this experiment is merely to get an initial indication of the performance of the models.

Reviewer: Past tense.
```suggestion
Although running multiple trials would have allowed for an average performance evaluation, we argued that the variability of the results in each trial would be small enough that an average performance would not change the ranking of the models. 
Additionally, as stated, the goal of this experiment was merely to get an initial indication of the performance of the models.
```

> Additionally, as stated, the goal of this experiment is merely to get an initial indication of the performance of the models.

Reviewer: > Additionally, as stated, the goal of this experiment is merely to get an initial indication of the performance of the models.

This is enough as-is.
 I don't think we have to clarify that we don't run experiments multiple times. That's usually something you do for testing system performance. We're already doing cross-validation and have a separate test set.
